- Every software is working on information
- Any information is constant
- Data = Information = Constant

Types of constant
-----------------
A. Primary Constant (fundamental constant)
    1. Integer
    2. Real (floating)
    3. Character (any single symbol but in single quote)
    
B. Secondary Constant (derived from primary constant)
    1. Array
    2. String
    3. Pointer
    4. Union
    5. Structure
    6. Class
    7. Enumerator 

Variable
---------
- Every program consume memory in ram for = (program data) + (program instructions)
- program data is store by variable name
- Variable name of the memory location where we store data.
- Rule for variable name
    - a-z,A-Z,0-9 and "_" (only one symbol)
    - Never start with digit

Keywords
--------
- Predefined/reserved/builit-in word known by compiler
- Variable name are unkown by compiler so we need to declare properly


Data Types
----------
1. Primary (Fundamental) Data Types
- char,int,float,double,bool,void

2. Derived Data Types
- String / Reference / Array / Pointer / Function

3. User-Defined Data Types
- Typedef / Enum / Union / Struct / Class


Notes
-----
- `char` always 1 byte.
- Pointers depend on architecture (32-bit = 4B, 64-bit = 8B)(RAM memory).  
- Use `sizeof()` to check actual size on your system.

Output
------
- cout is is predefined object not function
- "<<" is insertion or put to operator
- used to insert message to monitor (standard o/p device)

Input
------
- cin is is predefined object not function
- ">>" is extraction or get from operator
- used to extract message from keyboard (standard i/p device)
- ANSI standards for c++ language says explicit declaration of function is compulsory
- predefined functions are declared in header files,so before using any predefined function in ur code 
  need to include that header files that contains it's declarations.
- iostream.h : include declaration of the identifier cout/cin,operator <</>>
- Header files contains declaration of identifiers
- Identifiers can be : function,variable name,object and macros etc

cin working
------------
- cin wait for user input untill enter click and store in input buffer with \n
- this ">>" reads from input buffer -> converts(Type conversion) -> stores(in variable) -> remove from buffer -> move to next extraction.
- Whitespace(' ','\t','\n') is ignored.
- Stops at first invalid character.
- Failbit handles invalid type conversions.
- Use cin.clear() and cin.ignore() for safe input recovery.

- Tips : Keyboard → Input Buffer → Extraction (>>) → Conversion → Variable

```cpp
#include<iostream>
using namespace std;
int main()
{
    int a;
    cin>>a;
    if(cin.fail())
    {
        cout<<"Type cconvertin faliled..";
    }
    else{
        cout<<"A : "<<a;
    }
    return 0;
}
```

cout working
-------------
- A buffer is a temporary memory area where data is stored before it is actually sent to console.
- Flushing the buffer = forcing the data stored in temporary memory to be displayed immediately on the console,
  , instead of waiting for more data or automatic flushing
- Why buffer? Writing to the console is slow, so C++ collects output in memory first to improve efficiency.
- When does flushing happen?
    1. Automatic flush : happen when buffer is full/program ends normally
    2. Manual flush
        - Using endl : inserts newline + flushes buffer
        - Using cout.flush() : flush without newline

- Steps
    1. Evaluation : cout evaluate variable,literal,expression
    2. Buffer : insertion operator "<<" move to cout buffer
    3. Flush : happen automatic or manually
    4. Console : afteer flush shown to console

- Tips : Evaluation → Buffer → Flush → Console

endl vs \n
-------------
- c++ provides 2 different approaches to ending lines.

| Feature                   | `endl`                                                                 | `\n`                                                            |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Meaning**               | End line + **flush buffer**                                            | Only newline character                                          |
| **What it does**          | Inserts `\n` **and** immediately flushes the output buffer to console  | Inserts a newline (`'\n'`) **without flushing**                 |
| **Effect on performance** | Slower (because it flushes buffer every time)                          | Faster (does not flush automatically)                           |
| **Use case**              | When you need output to appear immediately (like debugging or prompts) | When printing multiple lines for speed or normal output         |
| **Example**               | `cout << "Hello" << endl;`                                             | `cout << "Hello\n";`                                            |
| **Console Output**        | `Hello` (newline, immediately displayed)                               | `Hello` (newline, may stay in buffer until flush happens later) |
